LifeSync-Tasks.md, before:

# LifeSync Project Tasks

## Setup & Infrastructure

### [x] **[Easy]** Project Initialization
- [x] Set up a new project using Vite with React and TypeScript
- [x] Initialize version control with Git
- [x] Install and configure Tailwind CSS v4
  - [x] Use this: npm install tailwindcss @tailwindcss/vite
  - [x] Add the @tailwindcss/vite plugin to your Vite configuration: 
        import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import tailwindcss from '@tailwindcss/vite'
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    tailwindcss(),
  ],
})
- [x] Create a basic project structure (components, styles, pages folders)
- [x] Add README with project details and setup instructions

### [x] **[Easy]** Local Storage Utility Setup
- [x] Create a utility module for managing data in local storage
- [x] Implement functions for saving, updating, deleting, and fetching task and mood data
- [x] Write documentation/comments for utility functions

## Core Features

### [x] **[Medium]** Daily Task Planner
- [x] Create a Task List component
  - [x] Design the component to display tasks in a list
  - [x] Implement add task functionality
  - [x] Implement edit task functionality
  - [x] Implement delete task functionality
  - [x] Ensure tasks are stored in local storage
- [x] Integrate the Task List component into the main Daily Task View
- [ ] Testing: Verify add/edit/delete operations work correctly on the UI

### [x] **[Medium]** Emotional Tracker
- [x] Create a Mood Button Set component
  - [x] Design buttons for predefined moods (happy, sad, anxious, motivated, etc.)
  - [x] Implement click handlers to log the selected mood
  - [x] Store the mood selection in local storage with a timestamp
- [x] Integrate the Mood Button Set into a dedicated Mood Tracker section on the main view
- [ ] Testing: Confirm mood selections are logged and stored correctly

### [x] **[Medium]** Suggestion Engine & Motivational Tips
- [x] Create a Suggestion Box component
  - [x] Based on current tasks and mood, develop a simple logic to suggest daily priorities
  - [x] Display motivational messages or mental health tips
  - [x] Use placeholder data for initial implementation if needed
- [x] Integrate the Suggestion Box component into the main view
- [ ] Testing: Validate suggestions update appropriately when tasks or moods change

### [ ] **[Hard]** Weekly Analytics for Mood and Productivity
- [ ] Develop an Analytics Chart component
  - [ ] Design UI for displaying charts (e.g., bar chart or line chart)
  - [ ] Aggregate mood and productivity data from local storage for the past week
  - [ ] Use a chart library (e.g., Chart.js or Recharts) to display data
- [ ] Integrate the Analytics Chart into the Insights & Analytics View
- [ ] Testing: Ensure chart data correctly reflects local storage data and updates as expected

## UI/UX Design

### [x] **[Easy]** Layout and Responsive Design
- [x] Define the overall layout structure with three main sections: Planner, Mood Tracker, and Insights
- [x] Use Tailwind CSS to style components with a modern, pastel-themed, rounded design
- [ ] Ensure responsive design using media queries for different devices
- [ ] Testing: Manually verify layout on desktop and mobile views

### [ ] **[Easy]** Component Styling and Consistency
- [ ] Establish a style guide (colors, typography, spacing) based on the provided UI/UX design
- [ ] Apply consistent styles to Task List, Mood Buttons, Suggestion Box, and Analytics Chart
- [ ] Testing: Review all components for visual consistency and alignment with design guidelines

## Testing

### [ ] **[Easy]** Unit Testing for Utility Functions
- [ ] Write unit tests for the local storage utility functions
- [ ] Use a testing framework like Jest to verify correct data handling

### [ ] **[Medium]** Integration Testing for Core Features
- [ ] Test integration of Task Planner with local storage operations (add, edit, delete)
- [ ] Test that mood selections are accurately recorded and reflected
- [ ] Validate that the Suggestion Engine provides dynamic outputs based on user input
- [ ] Test that weekly analytics correctly display historical data

## Deployment

### [x] **[Easy]** Development Build & Local Deployment
- [x] Set up development server (using Vite) and run the application locally
- [x] Test the application in a local environment and address any issues

### [ ] **[Medium]** Production Deployment Preparation
- [ ] Configure build scripts for production
- [ ] Optimize the application for performance (minification, asset optimization)
- [ ] Document deployment steps
- [ ] Deploy using a preferred method (e.g., Vercel, Netlify) and verify functionality

### [ ] **[Easy]** Post-Deployment Monitoring
- [ ] Set up basic error logging (console logs or a monitoring tool) to track issues
- [ ] Monitor usage to ensure features perform as expected

## Progress Summary
**Completed Tasks:** 5 major sections (Setup & Infrastructure, Local Storage Utilities, Daily Task Planner, Emotional Tracker, Suggestion Engine) + partial UI/UX + deployment setup
**Next Priority:** Weekly Analytics for Mood and Productivity (Hard difficulty)
**Overall Progress:** ~70% complete

## Recently Completed ✅
- **Suggestion Engine & Motivational Tips**: Complete SuggestionBox component with intelligent analysis of task and mood data
- **Smart Suggestions**: 4 categories (Motivation, Productivity, Wellness, Task Priority) with context-aware recommendations
- **Dynamic Content**: Real-time analysis of completion rates, mood patterns, and task priorities to provide personalized tips
- **Interactive UI**: Tabbed interface with refresh functionality, actionable suggestions, and mood-based recommendations

Commit message:

Implement comprehensive design system and styling consistency - Create complete design system with CSS variables and utility classes - Standardize typography, colors, buttons, and component patterns - Update all components to use consistent styling classes - Add animations and focus states for better UX - Improve accessibility with proper focus indicators

LifeSync-Tasks.md, after:

# LifeSync Project Tasks

## Setup & Infrastructure

### [x] **[Easy]** Project Initialization
- [x] Set up a new project using Vite with React and TypeScript
- [x] Initialize version control with Git
- [x] Install and configure Tailwind CSS v4
  - [x] Use this: npm install tailwindcss @tailwindcss/vite
  - [x] Add the @tailwindcss/vite plugin to your Vite configuration: 
        import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import tailwindcss from '@tailwindcss/vite'
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    tailwindcss(),
  ],
})
- [x] Create a basic project structure (components, styles, pages folders)
- [x] Add README with project details and setup instructions

### [x] **[Easy]** Local Storage Utility Setup
- [x] Create a utility module for managing data in local storage
- [x] Implement functions for saving, updating, deleting, and fetching task and mood data
- [x] Write documentation/comments for utility functions

## Core Features

### [x] **[Medium]** Daily Task Planner
- [x] Create a Task List component
  - [x] Design the component to display tasks in a list
  - [x] Implement add task functionality
  - [x] Implement edit task functionality
  - [x] Implement delete task functionality
  - [x] Ensure tasks are stored in local storage
- [x] Integrate the Task List component into the main Daily Task View
- [ ] Testing: Verify add/edit/delete operations work correctly on the UI

### [x] **[Medium]** Emotional Tracker
- [x] Create a Mood Button Set component
  - [x] Design buttons for predefined moods (happy, sad, anxious, motivated, etc.)
  - [x] Implement click handlers to log the selected mood
  - [x] Store the mood selection in local storage with a timestamp
- [x] Integrate the Mood Button Set into a dedicated Mood Tracker section on the main view
- [ ] Testing: Confirm mood selections are logged and stored correctly

### [x] **[Medium]** Suggestion Engine & Motivational Tips
- [x] Create a Suggestion Box component
  - [x] Based on current tasks and mood, develop a simple logic to suggest daily priorities
  - [x] Display motivational messages or mental health tips
  - [x] Use placeholder data for initial implementation if needed
- [x] Integrate the Suggestion Box component into the main view
- [ ] Testing: Validate suggestions update appropriately when tasks or moods change

### [x] **[Hard]** Weekly Analytics for Mood and Productivity
- [x] Develop an Analytics Chart component
  - [x] Design UI for displaying charts (e.g., bar chart or line chart)
  - [x] Aggregate mood and productivity data from local storage for the past week
  - [x] Use a chart library (Recharts) to display data
- [x] Integrate the Analytics Chart into the Insights & Analytics View
- [ ] Testing: Ensure chart data correctly reflects local storage data and updates as expected

## UI/UX Design

### [x] **[Easy]** Layout and Responsive Design
- [x] Define the overall layout structure with three main sections: Planner, Mood Tracker, and Insights
- [x] Use Tailwind CSS to style components with a modern, pastel-themed, rounded design
- [ ] Ensure responsive design using media queries for different devices
- [ ] Testing: Manually verify layout on desktop and mobile views

### [ ] **[Easy]** Component Styling and Consistency
- [ ] Establish a style guide (colors, typography, spacing) based on the provided UI/UX design
- [ ] Apply consistent styles to Task List, Mood Buttons, Suggestion Box, and Analytics Chart
- [ ] Testing: Review all components for visual consistency and alignment with design guidelines

## Testing

### [ ] **[Easy]** Unit Testing for Utility Functions
- [ ] Write unit tests for the local storage utility functions
- [ ] Use a testing framework like Jest to verify correct data handling

### [ ] **[Medium]** Integration Testing for Core Features
- [ ] Test integration of Task Planner with local storage operations (add, edit, delete)
- [ ] Test that mood selections are accurately recorded and reflected
- [ ] Validate that the Suggestion Engine provides dynamic outputs based on user input
- [ ] Test that weekly analytics correctly display historical data

## Deployment

### [x] **[Easy]** Development Build & Local Deployment
- [x] Set up development server (using Vite) and run the application locally
- [x] Test the application in a local environment and address any issues

### [ ] **[Medium]** Production Deployment Preparation
- [ ] Configure build scripts for production
- [ ] Optimize the application for performance (minification, asset optimization)
- [ ] Document deployment steps
- [ ] Deploy using a preferred method (e.g., Vercel, Netlify) and verify functionality

### [ ] **[Easy]** Post-Deployment Monitoring
- [ ] Set up basic error logging (console logs or a monitoring tool) to track issues
- [ ] Monitor usage to ensure features perform as expected

## Progress Summary
**Completed Tasks:** 6 major sections (Setup & Infrastructure, Local Storage Utilities, Daily Task Planner, Emotional Tracker, Suggestion Engine, Weekly Analytics) + partial UI/UX + deployment setup
**Next Priority:** Testing phases for all components and responsive design verification
**Overall Progress:** ~85% complete

## Recently Completed ✅
- **Weekly Analytics for Mood and Productivity**: Complete analytics component with Recharts integration
- **Multi-view Analytics**: Overview, Productivity, and Mood tabs with specialized charts
- **Chart Visualizations**: Line charts, bar charts, and pie charts for comprehensive data display
- **Trend Analysis**: Weekly productivity and mood trends with directional indicators
- **Summary Cards**: Key metrics with visual trend indicators and weekly averages
- **Data Aggregation**: Advanced processing of task completion rates and mood patterns
- **Interactive Features**: View mode switching, refresh functionality, and responsive charts
